good morning everyone how's it run this
morning pretty exciting keynote there a
few presents for people thanks so much
for joining me today Simon Alicia I'm
ahead of solution architecture for
public sector in Australia and New
Zealand you might remember me for such
podcast as the AWS podcasts if you're a
listener thank you if you're not a
listening why not sign up come on we're
going to be doing a lot today a lot so
once this wakes up there we go it's a
wake down like most of us we're going to
dive right in this is a more advanced
session so I'm not going to explain what
different services doing all that sort
of stuff he clipped that up yourself
we're going to cover quite a lot in a
hurry many different domains and the
objective here is to give you things to
take away and actually do if you walk
out of this issue with one or two
meaningful cost-saving ideas that you
can actually execute in your environment
I'll personally be exceptionally happy
and I'm hoping you will too that's the
intent and we're going to cover three
main domains we're going to cover
operational optimization infrastructure
optimization and architectural
optimization so there's kind of
something for everyone here now the idea
here is to show you the money I want to
show you where the opportunities for
savings exist and Verna gave you a whole
bunch of new toys today so you can take
those cost savings and invest them in
other things if you want to as well but
the idea is to show you where you can
get the money now I've tried to make
this a bit easy because there's a lot of
maths going on here a lot of numbers
there's decimal places it gets a little
confusing so using this sort of little
star system that will show you the types
of cost savings these are real
percentages that i'll be showing you
today now i'll point out two things
firstly all the pricing i'm going to be
using is from the sydney region just
because that's where i happen to reside
so it's easy for me to calculate apply
your own local region pricing but the
concepts will be the same and the
percentage savings will likely be almost
exactly the same the other thing is some
of my pricing that I've used will be out
of date today that's one of the joys of
working at Amazon you do all this work
you prepare what do they do they cut the
prices and I can't be upset about that
that's a great news for you
but again the savings will still remain
that you'll see that so I did want to do
the quick wins the obvious stuff this is
not a basic session but this is the do
not pass go do not collect your hundred
dollars unless you do this already the
first thing is you use reserved
instances for stable workloads now what
is the magic rule of thumb that most
customers find successful here run your
system for three months get an
understanding of what the workload
actually looks like spend a little bit
of time tuning spend a little bit of
time optimizing then make your RI
commitment and your commitment could be
a one year could be a three year could
be the new convertible ones totally your
choice doesn't really matter but invest
in something for those stable workloads
once you understand them well the second
thing that you must do is use
consolidated billing because you will
receive discounts with doing no effort
there are many services that are tiered
based et tu s3 cloud front if you
consolidate your spend you automatically
get given the discount money for nothing
so do it so thursday morning in vegas i
am now pretty much one hundred percent
starbucks Frappuccino powered so i don't
feel bad putting this slide up let's
talk about some of the sweet good juicy
stuff so that's eleven o'clock i figure
this abyss it work I like these kinds of
dana's myself so we talk a lot about
architecture we architect for
availability we architect for
performance for security for function we
spend a great deal of time doing this
but I contend there is a new domain for
architecture and that is economy when
you're building your systems you need to
look at the economy of your architecture
because you have a great deal of control
over it so what I mean by economy of
architecture I mean the same or better
outcome for a lower cost and i'll show
you how we can actually do that today
i'm talking about the ability to trial
and change the way the system is built
during its own lifetime we need to move
away from this model of heavy up front
design some finger in the air
predictions of what capacities will need
and what
all the application will run and instead
embrace the idea of radical change
during its life cycle funded by cost
savings now there's degrees that you can
do this depending on whether you built
the system yourself or you're using a
commercial off-the-shelf system I'll be
showing you options that apply to either
now radical changes are possible and
they're driven by economics and more
importantly they often driven by the
appearance of new services like you saw
today that dramatically lower the cost
of some of the undifferentiated heavy
lifting of IT a service you may have
invested significant time effort and
money in building yourself you could
probably consume cheaper from somewhere
else replace in your system the other
aspect I think is really interesting and
this is a growing area of interest in
the community is around transactional
costs and operational costs so i have a
question is the only participation part
of the talk today the first two rows
will not get wet so it's not that sort
of participation but i have a question
for you as soon as my little clicker
works there we go who knows what theyre
per transaction cost is for their
favorite application not many people who
here knows what their cost per hour is
to operate systems that they're
responsible for good okay that's getting
better who tracks it in real time and
sticks up on a board in the corner yep
couple very representative of my
investigations with customers most of us
run and operate systems and have no idea
what they actually cost from a business
centric perspective so here's the
challenge I could have gone down this
direction for the whole talk I'm not
going to but I want to give you a little
something just to give a teaser as we go
there are some actionable steps you need
to take in this area the beginner one is
simply do it by hand sit down with cost
Explorer figure out your transaction
rates and do some rough calculations and
either be pleasantly surprised or really
really shocked depends intermediate you
gather these transaction volumes in real
time from your systems and you still
calculate by hand but the advanced one
is you monitor in real time you can plug
transaction rate into something like
Kinesis fire hose and run Kinesis
analytics on it and pull out
a really interesting data in real time
now what's my average transaction flow
versus my average infrastructure costs
and put it up in the corner and say hey
dev team optimize that that becomes your
measure so just think about things in
that term as we go through and optimize
some stuff because you need to make this
relevant to your business stakeholders
so let's talk about operational
optimization this is an interesting one
because people don't really think about
this very much because you know your
hire people they do stuff for you I pay
them they come in they do stuff you know
they don't do this stuff they'll do
something other stuff well what does
this stuff actually cost so I thought
I'd have it a bit of an international
investigation so what does it cost for a
systems administrator per hour is just
converted to US dollars around the world
and you can see that you know life in
Brazil as a systems administrator is
pretty good Japan's pretty high as well
but i'm guessing the cost of living is
pretty high but this is just the median
system administrators and none of us in
this room would ever work with just a
median system administrator would it's
not we don't do median dba's are the
same interestingly the parity of DBA per
hour costs compared to system
administrator cost was much closer than
I had thought I don't know how that
happened but again you've got a big
range there you know kind of sucks to be
a DBA in Singapore at the moment but
it's really good in Japan I don't know
but anyway all these things have a cost
so let's think about what the actual
meaning of this cost is so let's talk
about a database upgrade we should be
upgrading our databases on a regular
basis to take patches fixes performance
enhancements etc if you're going to do
one of these yourself you're doing a lot
of work you're going to backup the
primary get it back up the second row
you're going to backup the operating
system you're going to back up the
server you're going to try and find the
binary to do the upgrade with anyone
done that lately yeah that's a fun
morning's work right there then you're
going to create a change record then
you're going to rehearse it in
development because you know this thing
doesn't always go right then you're
going to do it in staging and make sure
it work properly then you do it in
production on the secondary then you'll
fail over then you'll do it on the
primary then you'll make sure it's
working and then if you're lucky you've
just spent eight hours doing something
that has no perceivable value except you
are now today or you could do something
like RDS and say well I'm going to shit
by
we know that I want to apply the update
in I'm going to run it in staging make
sure it's ok running production make
sure it's ok i'm going to create a
notification record just to tell people
i'm doing stuff because that's kind of
nice it'll take me maybe an hour maybe
and the nice thing is when I do it I
have complete control I choose when this
takes place the nature of it I can also
track at great granularity what happened
I can watch it happen either in real
time or save the logs for afterwards and
attach it to the change of record for
auditability so I've been really lazy
and made myself my life a lot easier and
I've saved the company a truckload of
cash depending on where i live just that
activity is anything from 133 dollars
less to 343 dollars less that's real
money msl assignment we're going to
spend that money anyway I've got a high
these people are not going away I said
that's great but you could invest in
that particular chunk of time / money
into something else of more value like
maybe tuning your database might be a
better use of a debased I'm so what
about at the infrastructure layer what
are we going to do there so one of the
big things that people do is invest in
storage and I want to give you a way to
save money on your storage without any
code changes at all so this is really
relevant to people who are running
systems that they might not have code
control over and this is taking
advantage of storage tiers particularly
in frequent access now you need to
understand your usage patterns to take
advantage of this but let's work a real
example here storing 100 terabytes of
photos because that's what my app does
each photos about 10 meg and it costs me
in standard is 3 3292 dollars and
seventy-eight cents per month nice and
resilient safe i love s3 is doing a
great job but you know that's a pretty
decent investment in storage costs what
if i know a bit about my daughter and i
know that my daughter has a long tail so
you know after 30 days most of the data
actually doesn't get access because
people get bored with the pictures i put
up there i'm twenty percent of it maybe
it gets returned once a month with the
odd exception so i can create a policy a
few clicks and say hey apply this policy
to my s3 bucket and move stuff across
BAM thirty-two percent saving
naoko change no effort I'm now spending
two thousand two hundred twenty dollars
and sixty five cents per month that's
not bad so some want to point out here
today's none of what we're talking about
here is five percent saving ten percent
saving 50 we're talking big meaningful
move the needle savings those folks
standing about this heaps of seats
around here if you want to sit down to
what about this one revisit and right
sizing or ec2 instances this is a bad
habit I see people falling into because
we grew up in an age old world your bio
server you live with the server so you
never look at the surface again do you
you're just deploying you get on with
your life well that is not the case in
ec tool and as you saw this week lots of
new instance types to choose from do you
check on a regular basis whether your
instance types match the reality of your
workload who's done it in the last six
months good at least every six months if
not once a quarter the updates in the
idea best blog saying new instance type
available is probably a good cue you can
also use trusted advisor for some hints
on this and I'll share some good news
for you about trusted advisors soon but
let's work an example let's take a
Windows work like that I have running
and let's compare to instance types so
I've got my m4 for x-large cost me just
over two dollars an hour to run in
Sydney I've got my m4 x large cost me
nearly thirty cents in how to run let's
see now I'm running my workload and I
look and I say well what's notable about
that workload well it kind of pegs out
at fifteen percent of the CPU that's
what it does doesn't go higher than that
that's its maximum rate for whatever
reason don't know why that's just what
it does so I can do a trivial change and
change my instance type down to that x
large size and test it because you're
always on a test to make sure we're
doing the right thing and lo and behold
Rome are sitting I'm sitting about sixty
percent now I'm really happy with that
because I'm a conservative kind of guy
don't like running my servers at ninety
percent because wheat stuff happens at
ninety percent doesn't it gets a bit
shady but sixty percent is fine I've can
pick up and down I got no trouble before
I even start using auto scaling groups
so I'm pretty comfortable with this what
have I just done I've saved myself
eighty-seven percent on my ec2 bill now
I would contend that for most customers
are ec2
part of the bill is the biggest part if
you go to the whoever's paying that bill
and say I've just saved you eighty-seven
percent of your ec2 bill you will
probably get a hug you might not want a
hug but i'm pretty sure eighty-five
percent and upwards of savings is the
hug zone that's what i'm calling it
again oh that's a good thing or not you
know we'll just call it what it is so
you can actually use trusted advisor to
help you with some of this stuff it does
give you some really good cost
optimization hints and one of the nice
ones is the low utilization ec2
instances now this is not so much for
the example I just gave you this is for
the ones that are pretty much someone
turned them on and they don't use them
at all like really low network
utilization really low CPU utilization
take advantage of trusted advisor so
let's get a little more fancy shall we
spot instances who uses spot instances
hear they're quite a few they provide
great value for your workloads but for
many people they're only familiar with
using them for maybe dev tests and
highly scalable and embarrassingly
parallel processing type working i think
that are ephemeral but did you know you
can use it in a different way and he
comes the code so this is an auto
scaling group launch configuration in
cloud formation so our first taste of
Jason for the morning just get us up and
going so I didn't convert it to the y ml
version I probably should but ran out of
time so this is the launch configuration
part of our auto scaling group so what
do we do so we duplicate our auto
scaling group so will now have two auto
scaling groups for our application and
we're going to do a hell of a lot of
cottam it could take a long time till
the boss you might not be available for
a week cause you're going to do a lot of
work you're going to add one line to a
large configuration and that one line is
the spot price and automatically you
have turned this launch configuration
which is a new one show picture soon
into a spot instance driven autoscale
group so you've probably seen some
quizzical looks this is how it looks I
have one lb and i'll have to auto
scaling groups one auto scaling group is
my standard on demand or it could be an
RI order scaling group doing its work
quite happily but it's really small my
other auto scaling
though is my spot instance auto-scaling
group and for that i'm going to bid the
higher than the market rate but lower
than the on-demand price now one of the
benefits of the way the spot market
works is even if you bid higher than the
spot price you paid the prevailing rate
so if I bid one dollar and the
prevailing rate is fifty cents I pay
fifty cents so i have to do any work
which is good so as long as I'm bidding
lower than the on demand rate and higher
than a spot rate I'm automatically
saving money of some description they
most i harbored Simon their spot
instances you might not always have them
and i'll say yes you're absolutely right
which is why we will set a cloud watch
alarm on the group in service instances
for the spot instances group and make
sure we have enough capacity there and
if we don't what is that trigger it
triggers our other on-demand orders can
group balancing workload playing with
some stuff technology not too shabby now
we need to understand the price history
to make sure we make an intelligent
approach here luckily we have the
handy-dandy console she's probably been
fancy updated since i made this line and
we can see what the price history is
this is a good example of one in the
city region three az's you can see for
this particular instance type the m3
medium pretty low and steady isn't it
doesn't change much as a little spike in
one spot but it's not one of those ones
it's bouncing all over the place so i've
got pretty good assurance that the price
is generally low so let's work the
example here so I've got to auto scaling
groups spot and on demand my on demand
price is about nine cents an hour for on
demand my spot price that I've seen the
market is about 1.3 sense so if I've got
a 12 server fleet if i use it using just
on demand that's a dollar 17 an hour now
many of you know your hourly cost which
is good you should all know your hourly
cost if i convert it to this model and
aggressively use spot in this scenario
unlikely to be spending 32 cents an hour
or I've saved seventy-two percent now
this is really nifty because firstly
it's kept me out of a hug zone which I
know some of us are not too comfortable
in but we still saved a lot of money how
much I mean seventy two percent off your
bill that's something to be thought
about so let me show you another way to
save a lot of money on your
infrastructure without doing any code
changes
talk about developers we all love
developers developers work hard I was
once one and we you know developers work
on big projects but they never work 24-7
I have worked on projects where it's
happened for a short period of time but
the quality of code goes down very quick
and the coffee increase is just it
doesn't work out well so let's think
about this developers are not working
twenty-four/seven even if they're
working 10 hours a day I've still got
168 hours that nothing is happening shut
stuff off please telling you shut it off
you will save seventy percent it's
interesting a lot of people put a lot of
focus on their IT spend on production
most of the IT spend is actually in
Devon test isn't it that's the little
secret of the industry so how can you
make this easy for yourself well you can
automate it there are many different
ways you can use there is no right way
my imploring to you is to do something
so one example is you can use tagging to
startup and shutdown but be careful with
this I'll share an example from an
Australian customer one of my favorite
customers re a group they were really
advancing the AWS you so they tagged
everything I said we're going to write a
script it's going to go through it if
it's got the right tag it gets shut down
at night awesome only problem there was
a little issue with the code is that if
it called the API didn't get any tags
back i thought i untagged instance shut
it down so it's a bit of an issue with
the API at the time and it was getting
no tags back and it was just happily
going down and shutting off hundreds of
instances it was actually called the
zombie apocalypse and the really kicker
of the story is that the zombie
apocalypse only ended when the instance
that was running the script killed
itself boom so you know use something
but be careful what you use now I want
to give you a list of things to use it
is a completely incomplete list but it's
a good one to take a snapshot of so you
can use lambda you can use data pipeline
you can use cloud watch I'm going to
name-check an Australian company called
guerilla stack who also do stuff in this
area so there are lots of options you
have turn stuff off please now another
little infrastructure one is cushioning
now Casey is one of these weird things
in I tell don't if you guys have found
it but people are kind of afraid of
caching it's like all it's a bit scary
and we didn't learn about it in
university and it's unfamiliar to us and
you've got to preload caches on what if
the case turns off and all this good
stuff anyone it's worth investigating
because beyond performance improvements
you can get and this white paper the
reason I've link that is that just gives
you so much information way more i could
give you in this session you can save
ninety percent of your spanner in the
hugs and again danger so think about it
if I've got a database that's a DB m
three large and it's doing 30,000 pie
ops single easy so just one note and I'm
driving it hard and I flip it to an
elastic ash node it's an order of
magnitude cheaper Wow and my customers
will probably be happier yes got to do a
little bit of work we're getting to the
little bit of work zone but it's
something to think about the other
reason I mention it is for a lot of
applications today they do provide a
drop in capability for things like Redis
and memcache and if you're not using
them you should look into it because you
could save big so let's move into some
Mickey stuff the architectural
optimization if you're an architect
sitting in this room today you are
unbelievably lucky you're as lucky as
this gentleman here because this
gentleman is standing here he's got
levers to pull has me you can pull them
down he can pull them up but it's
actually really cool with intelligent
decisions you can pull different levers
and get different outcomes it's awesome
so what are some of the livers you could
pull well you can do code changes you
could actually change code it's actually
the best way to fix stuff the number of
times I talk to customers are like well
this application runs terribly and we
want to change the infrastructure so
well maybe you should just fix the
application in the first place um so we
can do that you know and there are
architectural trade-offs to be made
there are way more decisions and you
ever had to make before and on the one
hand that's challenging because you've
got a kind of learn more but the flip
side is it's great because you've got
more choice and it can make better more
finely honed decisions and you can test
them in real time to see if they make
sense you're not sitting there 12 months
before deployment going on I think if I
use this kind of approach it'll be okay
you can say well I tried that approach
it didn't work i'm going to spend a week
and change it to something
different and it's okay and it really is
okay so let's talk about some of those
levers are some of those tricks you can
use who has a web tier no one has a web
tier me by my web tier all got a web
chief to do something so did you know
you don't need to have web servers to
host your web team because hosting web
servers is kind of boring unless you're
doing a truckload of madhuri rights and
other stuff you're really just spending
most of your time patching feeding
upgrading and looking after it so one of
the approaches a lot of customers have
start to take is to use s3 as their whip
too because s3 has this capability
called static website hosting worst name
ever because it's not static you can run
JavaScript you could do cause you can
host the AWS sdk near you could do a
whole bunch of active stuff from that
website and you're not patching it there
are no service to manage there's no
scaling rules to worry about it just
works they may say about what does that
cost me to run Simon well if we take an
average page and these days an average
page has 150 or more objects on it and
the average size per page is exceeded to
Meg it's actually rapidly growing which
is interesting let's say we've got a
popular website 100,000 page views a day
450 million gets nearly six terabytes of
data transfer I'm paying in Sydney 1130
nine dollars and 43 cents per month for
that all day every day getting that
happening for me now remember our
example will for about what it costs to
administer stuff what am i saving on
well I'm not patching web servers
anymore not doing capacity planning not
having to worry so much about my
security scanning because the pipeline
is much easier to scan as less surface
area my rollouts can be much easier I
could do better testing saving hours per
month so let's get to something really
nifty that's our front end what excuse
i've been talking about to you since
2011 without obvious customers and they
are awesome for decoupling and
availability and scaling or what sort of
stuff but did you know you can use them
to manage costs yes you can let's work
an example here let's trigger our auto
auto scaling groups based on a revenue
totally different model to think about
so we're going to work an example
because it's always easy to work an
example to get these through so we have
an appt it's a mobile app I take photos
because that's what I do and when I take
a photo gets stored in s3 and something
happens to it and I care not what that
might be in our example we've got a
single em four large and that can
process one thousand images in an hour
and I've got an agreement with my
customers it's a freemium service if you
don't pay for me you get your photo back
when you get it back if you do pay for
it I'll get it back to you within 10
minutes because that's kind of how we
roll so I have two auto scaling groups
here the auto scaling group at the top
to freak you so if I'm a free customer
my metadata goes on to the freak you to
be processed and the auto scaling group
only spins up when I have a thousand
pieces of work on that cube so I'm
maximizing my workload for that out i
like but i will wait an indeterminate
time if though I'm a paid customer Mike
you use is a completely different metric
you may not be familiar with this metra
because it only came out a little while
ago it's the approximate age of oldest
message so it tells you how aged your
queue is remember a 10 minute SLA this
says if i'm lagging behind my ten
minutes spin up instances process away
completely different behaviour of two
auto scaling groups based on different q
rules same customer base how does this
look from a revenue perspective well
let's do an example two thousand
transactions come in half of them a free
half owner a premium so we in the free
mode only spin up one instance for an
hour or we process those transactions so
our cost is and here we start reading a
dot the zeros point ooo 336 per
transaction now if I'm processing on the
pain cube though I have to spin up ten
instances to get the SLA that I want
based upon that through point so I'm
paying point 00 2016 so again ordered
made the two different costs for my paid
versus my free people isn't it I now
need to understand what am I charging my
free people nothing so that's a cost
that's burdened on my paid people what
am I charging my paid people do I know
if I'm making money on any
customer what's the question to start
bubbling in your head so let's see if we
can make this cheaper and better now
that we understand what our cost model
is well one of the fundamental rules in
architecture is the less you have the
cheaper it is of a simpler it tends to
be to operate the ultimate thing is the
thing that has no moving parts it's like
a block so what we want to do is want to
simplify so I'm going to simplify by
moving us to a lambda basement model and
i'm going to show you the cost
implication of this verse is just the
functionality thing so what are we done
here you can see there's no queues here
and we've now like two buckets why do we
have two buckets well we're going to use
s3 events and I'll show you how to
configure that surely but if we had the
one bucket and we're using s3 events
every time we did something to that
object what would happen it would spin
off and try to do it again so now we
have two buckets we receive the image
into one bucket do an s3 event that
triggers a lambda function to do my work
and then we store it to a secondary
bucket now for our example I've taken
the worst-case scenario of how long it
takes to process my image I've given it
the largest amount of memory I've gone
as hard as I could in terms of the
badness scale just to give you a
realistic example and I'm now processing
my per transaction cost lots of 00 i'm
going to try and translate it for you in
the reader to fifty three percent
savings I've hard my transaction cost
you take that to your business
stakeholder and sage you know which art
we can now charge our customers fifty
percent less and be more competitive or
we could take that money and invested in
a marketing campaign or we could give
them a 25-percent cost saving yeah it's
up to you what you do with the money but
you're now processing better the other
thing you've done is you've taken the
queuing out so not paying for that
although it was really negligible as
literally dollars for what we're talking
about here the other thing I have
infected into this cost saving is you
get with lambda a free tier forever in
this particular model that would give
enough 71,000 free transactions every
month before we even started paying for
it that's pretty good what's the other
thing I've done here we've now
eliminated our 10-minute SLA Emily we
now get people stuff almost
instantaneously and they're paying less
for it so how do we set up a s3
notification well it's really tough to
can take you forever you know
you're basically a jump into here you
can also do it through the command line
etc and you simply say hey I want to
create an image processor function that
responds to a put request on a
particular bucket and triggers a lander
function wow that was hard I'm liking
this new world it's so much easier than
it used to be now you may say a hi Simon
but the pricing you showed me for your
paid tier is higher than your spot tier
isn't it I also yes it is but we can
double down on that we can have both so
we can have the lambda function for our
page here because it gives us that
really nifty controllable SLA we can
continue to optimize that if we want and
we could also apply all our newfound
spot knowledge to our free tier and
drive that as low as possible to almost
zero so we can have our cake and eat it
too so this is how you can start to use
queues based on economic performance now
you may say well Simon you've used the
easy examples it's all stateless just
photos come on where's the data well I
agree databases make it hard databases
are always the trickiest part so here
are some rules of thumb that you need to
think about firstly let's stop the
religious argument of relational versus
no sequel the answer is both got to tell
you they suit different patterns
different workloads and you'll often
find an opportunity to pull out a
particular component and put it into a
no sequel database and vice versa use
caching liberally it is an awesome
pattern if you look at any large-scale
software development company that are
delivering web scale applications they
have caching everywhere it's just normal
we need to take advantage of it more do
not conflate your transactional database
with your analytical database the how
not one on the same there is a reason
why redshift exists and there's a reason
why postgres exist and they're not for
the same reasons you need to separate
the two and also most often there'll be
just a few hot spots in your databases
and these are the giveaways say aha
that's the bit I need to migrate to
something more suitable for that
particular workload so it's not saying
well this database performs terribly I'm
just going to move the whole thing to
Cassandra well that's not going to
necessarily fix your problem need to
pick and choose
so when we pick and choose we use a
dollar value as well as a performance
figure to calculate that so here's an
example of a data set it's a big data
set three terabytes and it's running at
eighty percent read twenty percent right
pretty common work load pattern we see
if I sit down and say you know what I'm
paying a lot for my multi AZ ideas for
my sequel to do this i'm spending almost
five thousand dollars a month on it i
can simply move that data set to
DynamoDB i have to make some code
changes remember these are some levers
were pulling but i know i'm getting an
almost 40% saving and probably a better
performance profile so again i can
decide which levers to pull when it's
worth it now i'm not getting out of bed
for less than five percent quite frankly
so you know we're going to have the
numbers higher here so this is over
thirty percent so what's the point here
the point here is that architectures can
evolve they can change now what's one of
the biggest challenges are talking to
anyone about the whole concept of
evolution I have young children we talk
about evolution so why don't I ever see
anything change well because it takes
millions of years for something to
change you're never going to see it it's
really frustrating we live in a
completely different world in IT look at
this week for you guys how much has
changed here in this week there really
is usually it's good yeah things change
really quickly we as architects and
developers need to take advantage of
this and evolve our systems really
rapidly in response to the stimuli that
around in the world so I thought well
let's do a worked example of this and
see how this can actually play out so I
thought let's build a micro servers
because microservices are cool or not
yeah we like microservices so let's
build on so I thought let's build one to
help us find restrooms in Australia
we're lucky we have some really good
open data sets do you provides one that
shows me all the public toilets in
Australia by postcode awesome was it go
yeah handy tonics it let me tell ya I
was happy when I found it so I thought
okay let's build that and you know I
thought well let's take a traditional
thought process I'm going to grab just a
language I've never used python before
thought well I want to learn Python i'm
a developer so of course i'll choose the
new shiny thing so i chose python bottle
is a framework my staple because i know
how to code in my sepal and it's just
easy so i'll go ahead and build that so
i built a micro service so you can go
ahead and laugh my code
well that's our stuff and basically all
these microservice does is something
easy takes in a postcode or a zip code
you might call it and validates it they
can only be four digits in Australia so
it makes it nice and easy and then it
runs a query against my RDS database and
says hey get me the list and return it
as a JSON payload pretty easy so i coded
that up short nice about myself is all
we're going to deploy this particular
microservice well we tend to do what's
familiar so I'm going to deploy it on to
ec2 and I'm not going to do it natively
I'm just going to go and use ice tea
please talk so spin up elastic Beanstalk
and deploy that's going to give me some
awesome stuff it's going to give me a
load balancer get in communion
auto-scaling group i'm highly available
i'm going to have a redundant ids
cluster running underneath i'm looking
pretty good some downside there I don't
have any API protection no throttling no
credentials no management still going to
roll my service for and do some patch
management although elastic Beanstalk
hilts are what with that still got kind
of a heavy storage layer but you know
this does the job so let's see how it
actually looks if you've never used
elastic beanstalk before is where we
have color and movement so this is eight
times speed i'm calling it out because i
didn't want to have you sitting here for
a while because you know it takes time
for instances to spin up but this is
deploying from my code base they're
doing an eb create and it's speeding up
the elastic load balancer spinning up
the instances the auto scaling groups of
cloud watch rules etc I really like
elastic be stopped because it does all
that stuff for me so this will spin up
it'll create all the resources and I'm a
happy little camper and i'll show you
how it works surely we'll just let it
spin up you can see what i did at a time
speed because i can't tap dance for as
long as this would have taken it takes a
few minutes because you know instances
take time to spin up but in general
it'll do it in a few minutes and away we
go and boom we're done great so what
does it actually do so if i type in my
URL and i do a slash postcode and then i
do a / 2008 sydney CBD there's all the
bathrooms I do melbourne CBD where I'm
from 3000 my suburbs 3185 I'm pretty
comfortable this works does the job I'm
happy with it great I could have stopped
there but evolution huh things
change so how do i evolved well what's
cool that's what's useful what are
people like that I containers container
eyes we should contain their eyes so I
thought well I'm not going to contain
her eyes I'll be lazy I'll get someone
in my office to contain the rise for me
so Shane bore the channel is one of the
essays in our melbourne office said I'll
container eyes and he did he took my
code as it was put it into ecs and
containerized it is even the docker file
for your reference super complicated so
it was really good because we got to say
docker a lot it's fun saying dr. a lot
isn't it everyone feels good said don't
get today and so what we've got here is
something that is pretty much the same
as what we had before the instances do
spin up faster which is nice but I
haven't solved any of my other problems
really but I've evolved it to something
a little more modern perhaps because i'm
using a lot of weight container catoon
my container better than maybe i could
tune my application instances
particularly for such a lightweight
microservice but let's evolve let's
continue to evolve its respond to
stimuli so let's lambda i's and put api
gateway on there as well so something
I've taken a vast step forward I've said
you know what I'm over these servers I'm
over these containers I'm only going to
use compute when I need to execute my
function and of course microservices fit
this model perfectly so no manly
spending money when I'm doing stuff I'm
not patching servers anymore I'm not
having to do maintenance because you
know the little secret of docker
containers you still have to patch them
kind of good to do I've never fully
managed api throttling performance or
liquid stuff but I still got this big
storage layer down the bottom so the
Wise Ones amongst you be going hard
that's that's where I'd be evolving next
because really you just got a big lookup
table so I'm alive we got a sequel
database there and I'm is would be you'd
be surprised why people do the things
they do often it's because it's what we
know it was super easy for me to set
that up so of course I did that first so
let's take it to the end point and no
sequel eyes it so we introduced DynamoDB
and now we have no servers we have no
containers we have no database to manage
we have a completely smooth line with
full availability completely tunable
performance management
and control we now get to say serverless
a lot which is way cool insane daughter
a lot isn't it because you can make
people angry because I but this servers
there there's really service behind it's
funny well it's funny for me the
downside of this so I'll be totally
honest with you is that people get a bit
concerned because I whoa less familiar
deployment model let's just ease up
there cowboy I don't know what's going
on here I'm not used to deploying this
way you've got this crazy no sequel
database you're deploying these
functions as a service are feeling
uncomfortable so I want to show you what
the code looks like and i want to show
you how you can use existing frameworks
to deploy it okay so that's where we're
going with this evolution so here's what
the new code looks like here's the new
code much like the old code what have I
done I've ripped out the my sequel calls
that you could see there the cursor that
was there and I've replaced it with a
dynamo DB call so all I'm doing is
connecting using the ADA best Python SDK
also known as boto into my DynamoDB
table I'm running a query I'm still
iterating through the items and
responding to it so our message here is
that any component developer can convert
from running a relational database to a
no sequel database it's not that hard so
I've done that here because I well you
haven't solved my deployment issue so I
thought well it's a good question and
you know it would have been easier me to
say well using Amazon deployment tool
like blah or X or whatever you say well
that's your ecosystem you're familiar so
I said I didn't want to do that as I
said never used python before not
familiar with it so I looked for what
are the sort of frameworks they get used
for deploying this kind of software and
I came across this one called zappa and
it appealed to me because it's got such
a cool name you know is that moon unit
zappa is it Frank Zappa but sepa zep is
a very popular open-source deployment
mechanism and I've got to say it is
really cool and what they did is I said
we've got this deployment framework
we're going to just include the ability
to deploy to Amazon lambda awesome let's
see what that looks like so what we do
is we do a deployment there's a
configuration file behind us with about
three lines in it the lines are the
credentials I need to use the s3 bucket
at which environment i wanted to point
to it's not that hard so we go ahead and
we deploy and this is the real time
video haven't sped this up
zappa deployed prod and he goes ahead
and packages my project up for my laptop
that was in get and sends it up across
what was a particularly poor
communication line at the time and it
starts to create the lambda function it
creates a few health check rules for me
as well to keep it alive and running for
me which is nice it will also create a
API gateway for me does all the plumbing
does all the IM roles for me everything
i didn't have to do anything it was
really easy to setup which is what i
want to share this with you it also
shares one of those beautiful features
of many tools which is the progress
meter that doesn't get to one hundred
percent don't we love those and it moves
that if funny so this'll finish about
think it finished about ninety three
percent something like that but it goes
along and the thing I do like is it does
say this step will take a bit a bit
being an interesting measure of time but
this is real time so it's going ahead
and deploying deploying the API gateway
seen ninety-four percent it's good done
I've deployed my micro service how cool
was that so let's go and see what it
looks like so again I can make a call
but this time I'm curling the API
gateway / pride / postcode 2000 at
Sydney boom let's do melbourne boom
let's do elsternwick through 185 boom
nothing changed but everything changed i
evolved how I deliver that output I'm
doing it way cheaper way simpler way
more efficiently less deployment steps
I've evolved my architecture along the
way can be done so that's all the good
what about the bad there are two
anti-patterns I want to share with you
because these are things you should not
do and I want to encourage you not to do
please the first one is getting confused
between high availability and cost
optimization and I see this happen all
the time particularly driven by product
owners who say it's got to be as cheap
as possible and then you deploy on one
node and the node goes down and there's
an agent I say but it was down and you
said well I said it would go there but
it has to be up all the time so it's a
whole different conversation people so
what you want to do is model for
availability then cost but there is one
the interesting trick you could do for
this in particular related to protecting
yourself against AZ interruption so if
we have an application let's say we want
to always maintain 12 instances running
for our production load we need to
deploy it in duplicate across multiple
az's with full capacity so we're never
affected this is a true H a architecture
but there's a little mathematical trick
if you're deployed in a region that has
three or more azs so remember we're
protecting against an availability zone
level disruption so in the top model
we've got to run 24 aggregate aggregate
instances to protect ourselves in the
bottom model we only have to run 18 why
is that because I've only got to run 12
at any one time so if I lose an AZ the
bottom one still has enough instances
running the top line still has enough
instances running but to get there like
to spend twenty-five percent more so we
can immediately save twenty five percent
on a h a configuration just by spreading
across three az's if you have them
available to you that is a simple
configuration change in your auto
scaling group go ahead and do it
immediately less nodes having to run
same aggregate workload the second
gotcha who here stores binary large
objects in their relational databases
okay not many this happens a lot one of
the benefits of my role is I get to meet
with a lot of customers and I see a lot
of commercial software and a lot of self
driven software and this happens
surprising amount so I'm just going to
stand here and say do not do this it
makes your databases run really bad
really slow and they're very very
expensive how expensive you may ask well
let me show you let's say we're storing
our blobs in a table we've got three
rows in our table user ID image good and
a blob nice lazy programming way to do
things and each image is too Meg stored
in my database and we're really
successful and I'm now got three million
rows I've also now got any least six
terabyte database to manage which is
hard and painful and annoying and I'm
also spending 3279 dollars and fifty six
cents per month to run this in a chain
mode with just standard storage so
thanks she if I architect
is the way it should be architected what
would I do with my Bloods i would put
them in s3 wouldn't i that's where blobs
belong and i simply change my table and
say point to where the blob resides and
have the code get it from there and now
my database shrinks down to less than 6
gigabytes my storage cost is far lower
just to store that storage is just less
than two hundred dollars and even with
all the gets and puts I could possibly
need it's just over two hundred dollars
so my RDS cost goes down in my aggregate
cost has dropped and I've saved
42-percent just by doing things the
right way the first time so make sure
you avoid that trap and if you see
commercial software that you use doing
this have a stern talk with your
provider and encourage them to make it
more effective to run so we've covered a
lots that I was ripped up in the
doughnuts and got to the goodness inside
this is a cruel slide before lunch I
apologize but sorry but you know
hopefully they've got doughnuts but I
out of it and what I remind you is we're
talking about here is a new domain for
architecture we are talking about the
economy of your architecture think about
how to get the best outcome at the
lowest possible cost think about how to
change it all the time because you can
change it based on economics and
understand what your transactional costs
is as everyone rushes for the door there
is one more thing everyone in this
session today gets 30 days free trusted
advisor starting on the 6th December
thank you for coming along today this is
my gift to you it will automatically
activate based upon the email address
you sign up to re-invent to if you say
to me but Simon I use a different email
address give me your card and I'll have
it activated on the address that you
want thank you so much for coming along
today please fill in your evaluation I'm
happy to answer any questions that
people might have but thank you